ACTIVISION
BOXING
INSTRUCTIONS

Most people have fun with Activision video game cartridges as soon as they
plug them in and start playing. So go ahead! Use your Joystick Controllers.
And when you're ready to learn a few Boxing tricks, read these simple
instructions. O.K., shake hands and come out swinging...

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Boxing Basics

1. Hook up your video game system. Follow manufacturer's instructions.

2. With power OFF, plug in game cartridge.

3. Turn power ON. If no picture appears, check connection of your game
system to TV, then try steps 1-3 again.

4. Select game with game select switch.

Game 1: You against the Activision computer (he's in black).
Game 2: You against another player.

5. Use left Joystick Controller for boxer in white and to play against the
computer (Game 1).

6. Use right Joystick Controller for boxer in black (Game 2).

7. Hold Joystick Controller with red button at upper left. Push button to
punch. Hold down for combination punching.

8. Choose your difficulty or handicap for each player (or the computer):

a(up)--Slow down a bit
b(down)--Normal speed


---------------------------------

|Note to owners of Sears        |

|Tele-Game Video Arcade system: |

|                               |

| Difficulty switches are called|

| skill left (or right) player  |

| and a(up) is expert and       |

| b(down) is novice.            |

---------------------------------

9. Press game reset to start each 2-minute round.

10. Scoring (top of screen):

Long jabs = 1 point each Close power punches = 2 points each 100 points is
K.O. (It's tough, but you can do it.)

Best score at end of match is the winner!
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Special Features of Boxing by Activision

Scoring Points: When you get near enough to your opponent to throw a punch,
press the red button. Each punch moves your opponent slightly back and away
from the punch. If you move him to the ropes, he can't easily duck the next
punch, and you can set up a real scoring barrage. But don't get caughton
the ropes yourself!

Watch your distance. If you move in too close, the computer gets tougher;
but if you're too far away, you can't land scoring punches.

Give yourself a fighting chance. Put your difficulty setting (the left one)
down to b and set the computer's difficulty control (the right one) up to
a. Then, when you're ready for a really tough bout, tkae the computer on at
b and see how well you do.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
HOW TO BE A CHAMPION AT BOXING
BY ACTIVISION
Tips from Bob Whitehead, designer of Boxing

Bob Whitehead, a senior member of Activsion's design team, began designing
games for the Atari system in 1977 and worked on numerous well-known game
titles. He is busily at work on new games for Activision.

"I wanted Boxing to be fun to play the first time you try it, but I
designed some little tricks into the game that will make it more
challenging the more you play.

"You'll find that the way to win at Boxing it to hit and dance, hit and
dance (just like the pros). Draw off your opponent's jabs by making him
punch while you're dancing quickly out of his reach. And watch out! When he
gets behind, he gets better. But hang in there is you get behind; after the
first minute (of each two-minute bout), the computer gets a little tired,
and his reactions slow down. Come on strong at the end of the round and you
might still catch him. By the way, I shortened the rounds to 2 minutes
because... well, you'll see why when you've gone a couple rounds.

"Your best strategy for winning is to jab your opponent until you move him
to the ropes, then charge in, mit it up in close, and keep your red button
pressed down. You may be able to repeat a punching combination that builds
up your point score fast.

"But--please--be fair to newcomers. Give yourself a handicap when you're
showing them Boxing. We don't want you to lose your friends.

Bob Whitehead

ACTIVISION
Activision, Inc., Drawer No. 7287, Mountain View, CA 94039

(c) 1980 Activision AG-002-03 Rev. 2

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

This document converted to html by gchance@ecst.csuchico.edu.
-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
