<Picture>

<Picture>Journey_Escape<Picture>









------------------------------------------------------------------------



Data Age JOURNEY Escape Instructions

You're on the road with JOURNEY, one of the world's hottest 
rock groups.  A spectacular performance has just ended.  Now 
it's up to you to guide each JOURNEY Band Member past hordes 
of Love-Crazed Groupies, Sneaky Photographers, and Shifty-eyed 
Promoters to the safety of the JOURNEY Escape Vehicle in time 
to make the next concert.  Your mighty manager and loyal 
roadies are there to help, but the escape is up to you!

A Data Age (tm) Video Game.

Escape Objectives
-----------------
You must lead all 5 members of JOURNEY through waves of pesky 
characters and backstage obstacles to the Scarab Escape 
Vehicle before time runs out.  You must also protect $50,000 
in concert cash from grasping groupies, photographers, and 
promoters.

Band Members (lumpy looking guy in jeans and green shirt)
----
All JOURNEY Band Members - drummer Steve Smith, keyboard 
player Jonathan Cain, bass player Ross Valory, lead guitarist 
Neal Schon, and lead singer Steve Perry, are counting on -you- 
to lead them to their escape vehicle.  It won't be easy.  As 
JOURNEY says, "Some will win, some wil lose..."

Escape Vehicle (kind of like a beetle, or shield)
--
JOURNEY's Scarab - The famous Scarab Escape vehicle, featured 
on JOURNEY's hit album "Escape," is waiting for you.  Can you 
get ther with all 5 members of JOURNEY?

Characters to Avoid

Love-Crazed Groupies (hearts with legs)
--
They will flock to you and can easily relieve you of $300, but 
most important of all, they will rob you of precious time.

Shifty-Eyed Promoters (unhappy looking torso)
--
The promoters will try to corner you and "make you an offer you
can't refuse."  This one will cost you $2,000.
                              
Sneaky Photographers (camera light - kind of looks like a crystal
ball) --
Hidden in the crowd, the photographer will jump out at the 
opportune moment and indiscriminately take your picture.  It 
will cost you time and $600 to secure the negatives.

Stage Barriers (brick wall, or a building)
--
These annyoing obstacles won't cost you any money, but they 
will slow you down, making the rest of your run much more 
difficult.

Helpful Characters

Loyal Roadie (a blue alien)
--
He may be hard to reach in the crowd, but contact him and he 
will render you invulnerable to the onslaught for a short time.

Mighty Manager (Kool Aid man)
--
When things are looking bad, your manager is the only one who 
can keep you in the game.  He will not only allow the JOURNEY 
band members to run through the entire crowd to the escape 
vehicle without being stopped, but he will also get you an 
additional $9,900.                        

How To Find Your Escape Route

1.  Hook up your video game system according to the 
manufacturer's instructions.

2.  With game console power OFF, firmly plug in your JOURNEY 
ESCAPE (tm) game cartridge.

3.  Turn game console power ON.  An introductory scene should 
appear which features the JOURNEY Escape Vehicle emerging from 
the JOURNEY spheroid against a field of stars.  If no picture 
appears, check to make sure your game unit is hooked up 
correctly to your TV, then try steps 1-3 again.

4.  Adjust the "Brightness" control on your TV for best 
contrast.

5.  Plug your joystick controller into the left receptacle of 
your game console.  For two players, use both joystick 
controllers.  Player 1 uses the left controller and Player 2 
uses the right controller.

6.  To change to game play scene, push down the "GAME RESET" 
switch on your console.  Waves of groupies (hearts), 
promoters (heads with shifty eyes), and photographers 
(flashing lights) will continuously descend from the top of 
the screen.  A musical introduction to the JOURNEY hit, "Don't 
Stop Believing" will be playing in the background.  Use the 
"COLOR/BLACK & WHITE" switch to select the desired background 
effect.  IN the "BLACK & WHITE" position, a plain background 
will appear.  In the "COLOR" position, the background will 
come alive with a kaleidoscope of strobing stage lights.

7.  Depress "GAME SELECT" switch for one or two player option.

8.  Select your level of difficulty by positioning the 
"DIFFICULTY" switch at either Level A (for Advanced) of Level 
B (for Beginners).  You can match the skill levels of two 
players by having one play at Level A and the other play at 
Level B.

9.  Press red Fire Control Button to begin game play.

10. When a single player's turn is over, push down the "RESET" 
switch to begin a new game.  If there are two players, Player 
2 must press the red Fire Button on his joystick controller to 
start his turn.  Once PLayer 2's turn is over, Player 1 must 
press the red Fire Control Button to start his second turn; 
and so on.

11. Once the five players are safely in their vehicle, the 
game will revert to the introductory scene for about 15 
seconds after which time, it will automatically switch to the 
game play scene and an additional $50,000 will be added to 
your score.
NOTE: To prevent losing your accumulated score, do not reset 
the game during the replay of the introductory scene.  It will 
automatically change to the game play scene.

12. If a player fails to reach the escape vehicle in the 
allotted time, you've missed the next concert and the game is 
over.

13. To start a new game, press the "GAME RESET" switch, then 
press your red Fire Control Button.

Scoring
(game screen with labels pointing to each of the characters)

At the start of the game, you will have $50,000 and 60 units 
of time.  Each time you get stopped by a groupie, photographer 
or promoter you will lose some of your money.  For example, 
contacting a groupie will result in a loss of $300, a 
photographer $600 and a promoter $2,000.  Each time you 
contact a Manager, you will gain a bonus of $9,900.

If you make it to your escape vehicle before your time runs 
out, any extra time will be applied to the next band member.  
If you manage to get all five band members into the escape 
vehicle with time to spare, the extra time will be converted 
to a bonus of $100 for each unit of time saved.

Once the five players are safely in their vehicle, the game 
will revert to the introductory scene for about 15 seconds, 
after which time it will automatically switch to the game play 
scene and an additional $50,000 will be added to your score.

NOTE: To prevent losing your accumulated score, do not reset 
the game during the introductory scene.  It will automatically 
change to the game play scene.

Additional Escape Strategies

Once you have started the game play, use your joystick 
controller to guide each JOURNEY band member past the stage 
barriers, groupies, photographers and promoters.  You will 
only have 60 units of time to reach the escape vehicle, so you 
must move past the obstacles as fast as possible.  For maximum 
speed, hold the joystick controller in the forward position.  
when the player moves about two-thirds up the screen, all the 
obstacles will pass by faster.

Try to contact a roadie or a manaer when they appear.  Once 
you've made contact with a roadie, a series of musical notes 
will play in rapid succession.  As long as the notes are 
playing, you will be able to run up the middle without being 
stopped by the obstacles.  The manager's appearance will be 
rare, but if you are fortunate enough to contact him, you will 
earn an additional $9,900 and will be able to run through the 
entire crowd to the escape vehicle without being stopped.  The 
time you have just saved can be applied to the next JOURNEY 
band member.  But be careful!  Move too fast and you may miss 
the escape vehicle.

NOTE: For extra quick sideways or backward (downward) moves, 
use the fire control button while shifting the joystick in the 
desired direction.  
Since the promoters will cost you more money than the groupies 
or photographers, greater attention should be given to 
avoiding the promoters.

All DATA AGE (tm) Video Games carry a limited one-year 
warranty--our guarantee that if you find your cartridge to be 
defective in materials or workmanship within 12 months of your 
original purchase, Data Age, Inc., will repair or replace (at 
your option) the cartridge free of charge upon prepaid receipt 
of the cartridge and proof of the date of purchase.  (This 
warranty is limited to the electronic circuitry and mechanical 
parts of the cartridge, and does not apply to normal wear.)

JOURNEY E S C A P E
Look for other DATA AGE (tm) Video Games wherever video game 
cartridges are sold.  If you can't find our games in your 
area, drop us a line and we'll send you a list of stores near 
you.

Data Age, Inc., 62 South San Tomas Aquino Road, Campbell 
California 95008
(c)Copyright 1982 Data Age, Inc. Printed in U.S.A.  All rights 
reserved.
112-006





------------------------------------------------------------------------


This document obtained from the History of Home Video Games Homepage, ©1997 by Greg Chance




