RIVER RAID II

For the Atari 2600 and the Atari 7800 in 2600 mode

ACTIVISION



River Raid II was designed by Dan Kitchen and programmed by Imagineering,
Inc. This game is based on River Raid, which was designed by Carol Shaw.

Produced by Sherry Whiteley.

Product management by John Crompton.

Product testing by Kelly Zmak, Stew Perkins, and Steve Imes.

River Raid II guide by Liz Armstrong. Editorial management by Laura Singer.
Production by Scriptomation.

For a recorded message about our newest software, call 415-329-7699. For
technical help, call Technical Support between 9:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
Pacific time, Monday through Friday: 415-329-7699.

For information about our products, write to:

        Product Information
        Activision
        P.O. Box 3048
        Menlo Park, CA  94025-3048

For the best service, be sure to note the subject of your inquiry on the
outside of the envelope.


        Copying Prohibited

This software product is copyrighted and all rights are reserved by the
copyright holder. The distribution and sale of this product are intended
for the use of the original purchaser only and for use only on the computer
system specified. Copying, duplicating, selling, or otherwise distributing
this product without the expressed written permission of the copyright
holder are violations of U.S. Copyright Law and are hereby expressly
forbidden.

(C) 1988 Activision. All rights reserved.


Operation River Raid

Alone in your F-14 assault jet, you're about to understake the most
explosive mission of your celebrated flying career.

After taking off from a sea-based carrier, you'll tear through the skies
above the ocean and streak toward a river delta, where you must destroy
an enemy bridge. Once past the delta, you must navigate back to the carrier
and safely land. Without stopping for handshakes all around, you'll then
set off on a new, more dangerous mission.

This is no contest for amateurs. Once airborne, you'll have to refuel in
midair while outmaneuvering enemy fire. If you manage to outfuel these
fearless devils by blasting them with missiles or torpedoes, you'll also
win points.

If you don't make it, two backup planes will come to your rescue. Your
missions will continue until your squadron's name is history.


Getting Started

1. With the TV turned off, hook up your video game system to your TV.

2. Plug in your joysticks. In a one-player game, you use the left joystick.

3. Turn on the TV, insert the River Raid II cartridge into the game console,
   and then turn on the game console.

4. Press the game SELECT button to choose a one- or two-player game.

5. Set the DIFFICULTY switch to A or B. Switch A, the Expert Position,
   allows unguided missiles and torpedoes to shoot straight ahead only.
   Switch B, the Novice Position, lets you guide your missiles and
   torpedoes with the joystick controller after firing.


Overhead View of River Channel

{screenshot of a river scene pointing out: Enemy Helicopter, Enemy
Destroyer, Fuel Buoy, Your Assault Jet, RADAR Screen, Altimeter, Fuel
Guage, Speedometer, and Backup Plane}

1. To begin the game, press the joystick button or RESET. In a two-player
   game, Player One starts the game and takes off first.

2. To take off, press the joystick button again, holding it down to
   accelerate down the carrier runway. As you reach the end of the runway,
   quickly pull back on the joystick until you're airborne.

3. Once you're airborne, your Thrust bar will be replaced by an altimeter.
   To increase altitude, pull back on the joystick. To decrease altitude,
   push forward on the joystick. Increasing your altitude will slow you
   down; decreasing your altitude will speed you up.

   Watch your altimeter. If you fly too low, you'll crash. The altimeter bar
   flashes red when you're dangerously low. If you fly over land when the
   altimeter bar is flashing, you'll crash.

   The RADAR screen pinpoints your position throughout your mission and will
   identify the mission target as a flashing blip.

4. To bank right or left, move the joystick in the direction you want to go.


Refueling in Midair

To refuel, fly over the gold refueling planes that are flying in your
direction. These planes appear only over the ocean, so watch your fuel
guage. At the river, you can refuel by flying at low altitude and picking
up the gold buoys floating in the water. A warning sound will tell you
when your fuel level is dangerously low. If you run out of fuel, you'll
crash.


Conquering the Enemy

Avoid collisions with enemy helicopters, fighter jets, and flak bursts,
or you'll be today's headline.

To fire missiles at helicopters and jets, press the joystick button. To
drop torpedoes on enemy sea vessels, tanks, water towers, landing strips,
buildings, or bridges, press the joystick button while pulling back on the
joystick.

You cannot destroy enemy flak bursts. Just stay our of their way!


Landing

When calm seas appear below, your aircraft carrier is close by. The RADAR
screen will display your altitude and proximity to the ship.

1. Pull the joystick back  to maintain your altitude.

2. Hold down the joystick button. The Thrust bar replaces the altimeter.
   Increase your thrust until you reach the aircraft carrier.

3. As soon as you're over the carrier, release the joystick button and
   quickly push the joystick forward to land.


Your F-14 Assault Jet Squadron

The backup jets in your squadron will take over if you crash, run out of
fuel, or are hit by the enemy. Whenever a new plane steps in, it will
continue the mission at the position where the last plane was destroyed.
Backup planes always begin with a full fuel tank and at the highest
altitude.


The End of the Mission

The game ends if you lose all three planes or you successfully destroy
the enemy target and land on the aircraft carrier. At this point you can
start a new game or continue the game with a new, more difficult mission.
Each new game or mission begins back on the carrier.


River Raid II Flying Tips

Try to enter the river channel with a full tank of fuel. Fuel is tough to
come by at the river scene.

Maintain a low altitude when flying over the river. It's easier to swoop
down and pick up fuel buoys.

Keep a close eye on your RADAR to locate your mission target.


Scoring

In a two-player game, Player One's score is displayed in white and
Player Two's score is in black.

         Enemy Object            Point Value
         ------------            -----------
         Fighter Jet                  100
         Helicopter                   150
         Destroyer                    200
         Carrier                      250
         Water Tower                  300
         Building                     400
         Landing Strip                500
         Tank                         600
         Bridge                      2500


                ACTIVISION LIMITED 90-DAY WARRANTY

Activision warrants to the original consumer purchaser of this computer
software product that the recording medium on which the software programs
are recorded will be free from defects in the material and workmanship
for 90 days from the date of purchase. If the recording medium is found
defective within 90 days of original purchase, Activision agrees to
replace, free of charge, any product discovered to be defective within
such period upon receipt at its Factory Service Center of the product,
postage paid, with proof of date of purchase.

This warranty is limited to the recording medium containing the software
program originally provided by Activision and is not applicable to normal
wear and tear. This warranty shall not be applicable and shall be void
if the defect has arisen through abuse, mistreatment, or neglect. Any
implied warranties applicable to this product are limited to the 90-day
period described above. EXCEPT AS SET FORTH ABOVE, THIS WARRANTY IS IN
LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, WHETHER ORAL OR WRITTEN, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE, AND NO OTHER REPRESENTATION OR CLAIMS OF ANY NATURE SHALL BE
BINDING ON OR OBLIGATE ACTIVISION. IN NO EVENT WILL ACTIVISION BE LIABLE
FOR SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGE RESULTING FROM POSSESSION,
USE, OR MALFUNCTION OF THIS PRODUCT, INCLUDING DAMAGE TO PROPERTY AND, TO
THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, DAMAGES FOR PERSONAL INJURY, EVEN IF
ACTIVISION HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

SOME STATES DO NOT ALLOW LIMITATIONS ON HOW LONG AN IMPLIED WARRANTY LASTS
AND/OR THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES,
SO THE ABOVE LIMITATIONS AND/OR EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF LIABILITY MAY
NOT APPLY TO YOU. THIS WARRANTY GIVES YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS, AND YOU
MAY HAVE OTHER RIGHTS WHICH VARY FROM STATE TO STATE.


                RETURNS

Registered mail is recommended for returns. For the best service, please
be sure to --

1. Send the cartridge and sales receipt.

2. Write the name of the product and and the type of game system you have
   on the front of the package.

3. Enclose your return address, typed or printed clearly, inside the
   package.

Send to:

        WARRANTY REPLACEMENTS
        Activision
        P.O. Box 3047
        Menlo Park, CA  94025-3047


ACTIVISION
AK-048-03

-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
