                                                             5665-0950
                             M Network
                        Super Challenge(tm)
                             BASEBALL

                 I  N  S  T  R  U  C  T  I  O  N  S
                          (For 2 Players)

The object of the game is to score the most runs in 9 innings or extra innings
to a decision. Most professional baseball rules apply - 3 strikes for an out,
4 balls for a walk, first 2 fould balls count as strikes. Each player controls
an 8-man team. One team fields while the other team is up to bat. Home runs,
force-outs, double and triple plays can all be made. Batter up!

                FOR YOUR ATARI(*) VIDEO GAME SYSTEM

(C)Mattel, Inc. 1982. Hawthorne, CA 90250. PRINTED IN U.S.A. All Rights
Reserved.
* ATARI is a trademark of ATARI, Inc.

                            THE GAME

Each player controls an 8-man team. HOME team is BLUE. VISITORS are RED and
always bat first. During the game, the man you select to control changes
shape.

(Picture shows NORMAL POSITION as figure standing straight up. MAN YOU CONTROL
is figure running to the right.)

When your team is up to bat, you control the batter. When the pitch is right,
swing away (by pushing the Red button). Timing on your swing determines where
the ball goes. All hits are grounders, so the batter cannot fly out (not even
on fouls). If you play the more difficult game, you control the lead
baserunner, so you can steal bases. (You can ONLY steal bases on Difficulty
Level A.)

When your team is in the field, you control any one man at a time - pitcher,
baseman OR FIELDER. (No shortstop.) Pitch inside or outside, or lay the ball
right over the plate. Move a fielder to catch your opponent's hit. Then throw
the ball to a baseman or tag the runner for the put-out!

Scoreboard automatically displays Home score, Visitors score, balls, strikes,
outs and inning being played. Scoreboard disappears during actual play. IF THE
SCORE IS TIED AFTER 9 INNINGS, YOU GO INTO EXTRA INNINGS TO A DECISION. (Home
Team still bats last.) Inning number on the scoreboard does not advance beyond
9.

                            THE CONTROLLERS

Use your joystick controllers with this game. Be sure the controller cables are
securely plugged into the back of your game console. Hold the controller so the
red button is to your upper left.

TO PITCH:

(Picture shows: For INSIDE PITCH, push joystick LEFT. For STRAIGHT PITCH, push
joystick DOWN. For OUTSIDE PITCH, push joystick RIGHT. For FAST PITCH, push
joystick DOWN. For SLOW PITCH, push joystick UP.)

FOR A FAST PITCH, PULL THE JOYSTICK DOWN, TOWARD YOU.

FOR A SLOW PITCH, PUSH THE JOYSTICK UP, AWAY FROM YOU.

Change pitch while the ball is in the air, by moving the joystick.

TO RETURN THE BALL TO THE PITCHER, PRESS THE RED BUTTON.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
TO FIELD:

HOLD RED BUTTON DOWN WHILE YOU PUSH JOYSTICK up, down, left or right. PUSH
JOYSTICK ONCE for INFIELDER, TWICE for OUTFIELDER.


                         (up) Once: 2nd baseman
                          Twice: Center fielder

                       ---------------------------
                       |Joystick    ^            |
                       |diagram     |            |
                       |            |            |
      (left)           |            |            |          (right)
 Once: 3rd baseman     |<-----------0----------->|     Once: 1st baseman
Twice: Left fielder    |            |            |    Twice: Right fielder
                       |            |            |
                       |            |            |
                       |            U            |
                       ---------------------------

                          (down) Once: Catcher

1. If no one has the ball, fielding procedure GIVES YOU CONTROL OVER FIELDER
SELECTED. Control over an outfielder is possible ONLY after the ball has been
hit to the outfield. USE THE JOYSTICK TO MOVE FIELDER to ball. When he gets the
ball, it appears BLINKING over his head.

2. If a fielder has the ball, fielding procedure causes him to THROW THE BALL
TO THE BASEMAN SELECTED. The ball can ONLY be thrown to a baseman or the
catcher, or returned to the pitcher.
---------------------------------------------------------------------
TO BAT:

TO SWING, PRESS THE RED BUTTON.

TO MOVE A RUNNER (Difficulty A only): Push joystick RIGHT to move runner
FORWARD. Push joystick LEFT to move runner BACK.

                          DIFFICULTY SWITCHES

Only the LEFT Difficulty Switch makes any difference in game play. In "B"
position, all baserunners AUTOMATICALLY advance one base after a hit. You do
not control baserunners.

(Picture shows Left Difficulty Switch on "B".)

In "A" position, you control the LEAD baserunner. After a hit, all runners
except the lead runner, automatically advance one base. Lead runner may move
HALFWAY to the next base (if another runner is moving to occupy the base he
was on). You must move him the rest of the way.

If the bases are empty after a hit, you must move the batter to first base.

When stealing a base, ONLY the lead runner moves when you advance him.

                      OFFENSIVE (BATTING & RUNNING)

Batter automatically appears when the pitcher gets the ball. All batters are
right-handed.

WATCH THE PITCH. When the ball is in a good position to hit, SWING! (Press the
RED button.) WHEN you swing determines WHERE the ball goes when hit. (Early
swing goes left; late swing goes right.) NOTE: BEFORE the pitcher throws the
ball, the batter can select a fast swing by pushing the joystick forward or a
slow swing (bunt) by pushing the joystick down.

AFTER A HIT, when playing at Difficulty B, batter automatically runs for first
base and stops there. At Difficulty A, use the joystick to go for first,
second, third, a home run! Remember, if you have men on base, you control the
LEAD runner. Batter automatically goes for first. You cannot move your lead
runner back to a base which another runner is occupying or running toward. (No
collisions.) If your opponent isn't paying attention, GO FOR THE STEAL
(Difficulty A only). But be aware: your runners are only safe when standing ON
a base.

Scoreboard keeps track of strikes and balls.

AFTER 4 BALLS, batter automatically takes first base.

After any pitch, where no contact is made by the batter, your catcher gets the
ball. Return it to the pitcher. (Press the Red button.) Ball is automatically
returned to the pitcher after a FOUL BALL.

                               WINNING TIPS

1. Baseball is a game of defense. With a little practise on your fielding,
you'll have a tremendous advantage.

  - Watch where the ball is traveling. Pick out the fielder closest to the spot
    where you expect the ball to drop. Get control of that fielder.

  - Move your fielder after the ball. Then get your throw off fast! Remember:
    no fly outs!

2. When batting, make 'em pitch to you. Let the bad pitches go by.

3. After a hit, START RUNNING immediately (on Difficulty A games). Don't be
afraid to STRETCH your hits. Take 2nd, go for 3rd, etc.

4. When pitching, fake out your opponent. Throw a curve, then bring it back in
over the plate.

5. After pitching the ball, get control of the pitcher immediately. (Press the
red button after the ball is hit, without moving the joystick.) Many times the
pitcher will be able to field the ball quickly and throw the batter out.

IMPORTANT: BE SURE TO TURN YOUR GAME UNIT OFF WHEN NOT IN USE.

                          90 DAY LIMITED WARRANTY

Mattel Electronics warrants to the original consumer purchase of any cartridge
or cassette it manufacturers that the product will be free of defects in
material or workmanship for 90 days from the date of purchase. If defective,
return the product along with proof of the date-of-purchase to either your
local dealer or, postage prepaid, to:

Mattel Electronics Service Center(West) Mattel Electronics Service Center(East)
        5000 West 147th Street                       10 Abeel Road
     Hawthorne, California 90250               Cranbury, New Jersey 08512

for repair or replacement. This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and
you may also have other rights which vary from state to state. This warranty
does not cover damage resulting from accident, misuse or abuse.
---------------------------------------------------------------------


                         MATTEL ELECTRONICS(R)

