Manual typed by Ivan Shepperd, 73430.2705@compuserve.com

*** SKEET SHOOT ***

For 1 or 2 Players

DIRECTIONS INSIDE FOR 17 EXCIEING GAME VARIATIONS!

GAME INSTRUCTIONS


SKEET SHOOT

Pull!  The trap springs, and the clay pegeon -- alive with flight -- soars away
from you at an unexpected angle.  With a fluid motion, you raise your gun to
your shoulder as you pivot toward you target.  You lead your pegeon, finger on
the trigger...your mind racing...challenged by the speeding target before you.
Will your reactions be too slow?  Too fast?  Or right on course?  Suddenly you
squeeze the trigger!


THE SET-UP

Skeet Shoot(tm) is played with one or two players using the Joustick
Controllers.  Be sure the power is off whenever you insert or remove Skeet Shoot
from you video game system.


THE DIFFICULITY SWITCH

Set the Difficulity Switch on the A (up) position to start.  With the switch in
this position, the clay pigeons travel slower than in the B (down) position.

To provide a handicap advantage for a less experienced player in a two-player
game, you may vary the positions of the Difficulty Switch.  Simply leave the
switch in position A for the inexperienced player, and in position B for player
number two.


THE JOYSTICK CONTROLLER

ONE_PLAYER GAME  Hold your joystice controller so that the red "FIRE" button is
in the upper lefthand corner.  Use this button to release the clay pigeon (Press
once and release) and to fire your gun (press again and release).  Use your
Joystick to aim your gun.


                        SHOOT
                         UP
                          ^
              SHOOT       |       SHOOT
            DIAGONALLY    |    DIAGONALLY
               LEFT   \   |   /   RIGHT
                       \  |  /
                        \ | /
    SHOOT                \|/             SHOOT
    LEFT    <-----------------------------> RIGHT
                        STOP


Hold your Joystick to the left, and you will shoot to the left.  Hold it
diagonally left, and you will shoot diagonally left, etc., as illustrated in the
diagram above.


TWO-PLAYER GAME  Except for Game No. 2 all play is the same as that described
for the One-Player Game.  The only difference is that players take turns in
shooting.


GAME NO. 2  (See Game Menu) In this game, there are two variations from the
other Two-Player Games:

1.  In this variation, the player determines the shooter's position on the
screen by holding the joystick in the position in which he wishes the shooter to
appear (left, center or right).  In all other Two-Player games, the computer
determines the shooter's position.

2.  In the second variation, the opponent determines determines the target
direction by holding the Joystick in the position in which he wishes the target
to appear (left, center or right).  In all other Two-Player Games, the computer
determines the target direction.


There are seventeen variations of Skeet Shoot(tm).  Select your favorite with
the Game Select switch on your console, choosing from any of the variations
shown below on our game matrix.


GAME MENU

           ONE PLAYER     |      TWO PLAYER
GAME |  TARGET | SHOOTER  |   TARGET | SHOOTER
 NO. | L C R V | L C R V  |  L C R V | L C R V
-----+---------+----------+----------+---------
  1  |       V |       V  |          |
  2* |         |          |        V |       V
  3  |     R   |       V  |          |
  4  |   C     |       V  |          |
  5  | L       |       V  |          |
  6  |       V |     R    |          |
  7  |         |          |        V |     R
  8  |       V |   C      |          |
  9  |         |          |        V |   C
 10  |       V | L        |          |
 11  |         |          |        V | L
 12  | L       | L        |          |
 13  | L       |   C      |          |
 14  |   C     | L        |          |
 15  |   C     |     R    |          |
 16  |     R   |   C      |          |
 17  |     R   |     R    |          |
-----------------------------------------------

L = Left           C = Center        R = Right
    V = Variable (Computer varies target direction
                 or shooter's position.)

* In Game No. 2, the player determines shooter's position and opponent
determines target direction.


(c) 1981 Games by Apollo
a division of National Career Consultants, Inc.

