SPACE WAR

GAME PROGRAM TM INSTRUCTIONS

MODEL CX2604

ATARI

A Warner Communications Company

ATARI, INC., Consumer Division
1195 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 94086

(c) 1978 ATARI, INC.                                  C011402-04

Use your Joystick Controllers with this Game Program TM. Be sure
the Controllers are firmly connected to your Video Computer
System TM. See your Owner's Manual for details. Hold the
Controllers with the red button to your upper left towards the
television screen.

To prolong the life of your Atari Video Computer System and
protect the electronic components, the console should be OFF when
inserting or removing a Game Program.

CONTROLLER ACTION

   THRUST
      ^
      |
      |
   <----->
TURN  |  TURN
LEFT  |  RIGHT
      v
  HYPERSPACE

Just like learning to drive a car, it takes a bit of practice to
learn how to control your Star Ship during Space War and Space
Shuttle games. The following exercises will help you gain
proficiency in controlling your Star Ship. Game 14, a Space
Shuttle game, is an excellent practice field.

    <---    TURN LEFT                  -.     TURN RIGHT    
    #####   (COUNTER CLOCKWISE)      ^ # \    (CLOCKWISE)
  \  ###                            / ### v  
   \ ### ^                         /  ### 
    v # /                            #####
      -'                              --->

EXERCISE 1

After cycling to Game 14, push the Game Reset button. Push the
Joystick to the left; your Star Ship will rotate counter
clockwise
(left). Push the Joystick to the right; your Star Ship will
rotate clockwise (right). Practice rotating your Star Ship in
both directions. Notice how the Star Ship looks when it is each
position.
                                             
     INCREASE SPEED                   SLOW SPEED
            |                             |
  DIRECTION V DIRECTION                   | DIRECTION
         OF | OF                          | OF
     TRAVEL | THRUST                      | TRAVEL
            V                             V
          #####                           #
           ###                           ###
           ###                           ###
            #                           #####
            |                             ^ 
            |                             | DIRECTION
            |                             ^ OF
            V                             | THRUST

EXERCISE 2

Push the Game Reset button. By pushing the Joystick forward
(towards the television screen), give your Star Ship three quick
short bursts of "thrust". notice that your Star Ship is now
travelling in a forward motion towards the bottom of the
playfield. By turning the Star Ship either clockwise or counter
clockwise, turn the Star Ship so it is facing away from the
forward motion. Give the Star Ship thee short quick bursts of
thrust. Your Star Ship will slow almost to a stop. Push the Game
Reset and try again. Practice this exercise until you can stop
the Star Ship completely.

INCREASE SPEED

DIRECTION OF    #
TRAVEL          ###
--------->----->####---->
DIRECTION OF    ###
THRUST          #


SLOW SPEED

                #
              ###
------>----->####<----<------
DIRECTION OF  ### DIRECTION OF
TRAVEL          # THRUST


EXERCISE 3

Push the Game Reset button. Turn your Star Ship so it is facing
to your right and down (approximately 45 degrees). Give your Star
Ship continuous "thrust" until it is moving rapidly across the
playfield. Alternate using horizontal "thrust" and vertical
"thrust" to bring the Star Ship to a near standstill in the
middle of the playfield. After mastering the above exercises, you
should be an experienced Star Ship captain, ready to do battle
among the stars.
\
 \ DIRECTION OF TRAVEL
  \  #
   \##
   ###
  ####   ^
      \  | DIRECTION
       \ | OF THRUST
         #
        ###
        ###
       #####
              #
            ###
       <---####
  DIRECTION ###\
  OF THRUST   # \
                 \

HANDICAP Difficulty Switches

The left and right Difficulty switches must be in the "B"
position during all Space War games. In Space Shuttle games,
slide the Difficulty switch "A" and you must exactly match your
Star Ship's velocity to the Space Module's velocity. In "B"
position, your Star Ship does not have to travel at the same
speed to dock with the Space Module.

SCORING

During Space War games (1 through 7) you score one point when
your opponent's Star Ship explodes. A Star Ship will explode
when: 
*    A direct hit is made by firing a missile.
*    The Star Ship collides with the Space Sun (games 4 and 5).
*    The Star Ship runs out of fuel while in Hyperspace (games
     2 through 7).
*    The Star Ship tries to enter Hyperspace when out of fuel
     (games 2 through 7).

In one and two-player Shuttle games (8 through 17) one point is
scored each time the Star Ship is successfully docked with the
Space Module. You have ten minutes to score a maximum ten points.

SPACE GLOSSARY

Space Combat and Shuttle game playfields are characterized by
different "galaxy" variations. The following descriptions will
tell you what to expect when a game features any of these
variations.

[Picture of the playfield.]

GALAXY BOUNDARY

In some galaxies your Star Ship cannot penetrate the playfield
boundaries and will instead bounce off the edges.

WARP DRIVE

Move your Star Ship off one edge of the Galaxy Boundary and it
will go into Warp Drive and reappear on the opposite side. For
example, move your Star Ship off the right edge and it will
reappear on the left edge.

SPACE SUN

Fight the pull of gravity from the sun in the center of the Space
Galaxy. In some games your Star Ship will explode from exposure
to the extreme heat and reset to the starting position.

HYPERSPACE

Pull your Joystick towards you. Your Star Ship goes into
Hyperspace and becomes invisible. When in Hyperspace, your Star
Ship uses more fuel. It is impossible to be hit by your opponents
missiles or to collide with the Space Sun while in Hyperspace.
To make your Star Ship drop out of Hyperspace and reappear, pull
the Joystick towards you.

STARBASE

Make contact with the Starbase at the center of the galaxy to
refuel and resupply your missiles. Your missile and fuel gauges
at the top of the playfield will reflect resupplies as your Star
Ship resets to the starting point.

SPACE WAR GAMES

You and your opponent blast off into space. Each player controls
one Star Ship with the Joystick Controller. the object is to
score points by shooting your opponent's Star Ship with missiles
fired by the red button on your Joystick Controller. Aim the nose
of your Star Ship in the direction you want to fire.

Space War games last ten minutes or until one player scores ten
points. Player's scores appear at the top of the playfield and
are color coordinated with the Star Ships.

The two lines to the right of your score refer to fuel and
missile supply. The top line is the fuel gauge; the bottom line
is the amount of missiles remaining. Each player begins with
eight missiles. Once the arsenal is depleted, the game will
automatically reset each player with eight more missiles ONLY
when both players are out of missiles.

In most War games, fuel cannot be resupplied. In games 6 and 7,
players can refuel and resupply missiles by docking with the
Starbase. Fuel is used by adding "thrust" to your Star Ship or
by putting your Ship into Hyperspace.

GAME 1

It's war in space as two players attempt to score 10 points
first. You have Galaxy boundaries in this game.

GAME 2

Engage in combat in a galaxy which features Galaxy Boundaries and
Hyperspace.

GAME 3

Oppose your space opponent in a galaxy which has Warp Drive. Use
Hyperspace as a defensive move.

GAME 4

The Space Sun in the center of the galaxy exerts gravity during
combat. Avoid your opponent or collision with the Space Sun by
using Hyperspace. You also fight within Galaxy Boundaries.

GAME 5

The Space Sun, Warp Drive, and Hyperspace are the features of the
galaxy playfield.

GAME 6

You can refuel and receive more missiles at any time during this
game. Steer your Star Ship to the Starbase. This galaxy also
features Galaxy Boundaries and Hyperspace.

GAME 7

Steer your Star Ship to the Starbase at any time during the game
to refuel or receive more missiles. This galaxy also features
Warp Drive and Hyperspace.

SPACE SHUTTLE GAMES

If you have mastered the exercises, you are ready to try Space
Shuttle. Connect your Star Ship with the Space Module to score.
Recommended strategy is to first match your Star Ship's speed to
the Space Module's speed. Then slowly maneuver your Star Ship
towards the Space Module. During Shuttle games the Star Ships
have an unlimited supply of fuel.

In one-player games, you control one Star Ship with the left
Joystick Controller and compete against the clock. You have ten
minutes to score a maximum ten points. During two-player games
each player maneuvers his Star Ship to score. In two-player games
with two Space Modules, the target Space Module will be the same
color as your Star Ship. First player to score ten points or the
most points in ten minutes wins.

2-PLAYER GAMES

GAME 8

Two players each control one Star Ship and attempt to connect
with the Module which is color coordinated with the Ship. Warp
Drive is present in this galaxy.

GAME 9

Two players each control one Star Ship and compete to connect
with the same Space Module. This galaxy features Warp Drive.

GAME 10

Each player controls a Star Ship and attempts to connect with a
color coordinated Space Module. This galaxy has a Space Sun and
Galaxy Boundaries.

GAME 12

Galaxy Boundaries characterize this galaxy. Each player controls
a Star Ship and attempts to connect to the same Space Module.

GAME 13

Each player controls a Star Ship and attempts to connect with the
Space Module that is color coordinated to the Star Ship. Galaxy
boundaries are featured.

1-PLAYER GAMES

GAME 14

One player controls a Star Ship and attempts to connect with the
Space Module. This galaxy features Warp Drive.

GAME 15

A Space Sun and Warp Drive characterize this space galaxy. One
player steers the Star Ship to connect with the Space Module.

GAME 16

One player controls a Star Ship and attempts to dock it with the
Space Module. Galaxy Boundaries characterize this playfield.

GAME 17

A Space Sun and Galaxy Boundaries could affect one player's
strategy to connect the Star Ship with the Space Module.

SPACE WAR STRATEGY TIPS

After you master controlling your Star Ship, you're ready to
develop game strategy. The following tips should help you begin
your competitive strategy for Space Shuttle and Space War games.

SPACE WAR

*    Change your Star Ship's position as soon as the game is in
     the Start position. The initial location of the Star Ships
     makes it easier for players to score a direct hit.
*    Keep close surveillance on your opponent's missile supply
     gauge. Plan your shots so that your opponent deletes his
     missile supply first, leaving no defense against your
missiles.
*    Note that missile supplies are automatically replenished
     only when BOTH players have used all their missiles. Use
     this feature to you advantage when these three variables
     occur at once:
     *    Your opponent has no remaining missiles.
     *    You have remaining missiles.  
     *    You are playing in a galaxy with a Starbase.

Leave your opponent without a chance for resupplying missiles by
obtaining all of your missiles at the Starbase BEFORE your
supplies are completely depleted.

SPACE SHUTTLE
*    The easiest way to match you Star Ship's speed with the
     Space Module speed it to first, stop your ship. Point it in
     the DIRECTION the module is travelling. Apply thrust until
     the Star Ship and the Space Module are moving at the same
     speed. Then move the Star Ship towards the Space Module.
*    To efficiently make your Star Ship contact the Module:
     *    Your Star Ship must travel at the same speed as the
          Space Module.
     *    Your Star Ship must travel in the same direction as
          the Space Module.
     Now point your Ship at the Module and apply thrust.

SPACE WAR
                                       /
                  1  2  3  4  5  6  7 | 8  9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17
                .---------------------+-----------------------------
 No. of Players | 2  2  2  2  2  2  2 | 2  2  2  2  2  2  1  1  1  1
  Single Module | -  -  -  -  -  -  - | -  X  -  -  X  -  X  X  X  X
Galaxy Boundary | X  X  -  X  -  X  - | -  -  -  X  X  X  -  -  X  X
     Warp Drive | -  -  X  -  X  -  X | X  X  X  -  -  -  X  X  -  -
      Space Sun | -  -  -  X  X  -  - | -  -  X  X  -  -  -  X  -  X
     Hyperspace | -  X  X  X  X  X  X | -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -
       Starbase | -  -  -  -  -  X  X | -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -




-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
