                                ACTIVISION
                                STARMASTER
                            BASIC INSTRUCTIONS

You are alone in space.  A critical and difficult mission awaits you.
Carefully read these instructions and commit them to memory.  Then, study "The
Power of StarMaster."  It will help to instruct you in the ways of advanced
space combat.  And then, perhaps someday, YOU can attain the level of Supreme
StarMaster.



----------------------------STARMASTER BASICS----------------------------------
                             PILOT BRIEFING

"You must protect your starbases by destroying all invading enemy starfighters
before they destroy you or your starbases.  You must accomplish your mission
quickly, using the least amount of energy, sustaining the least damage.
Succeed, and you will be rewarded.  Fail, and you will be destroyed.  The
destiny of the galaxy is in your hands."

1.  Hook up your video game system.  Follow manufacturer's instructions.

2.  With power OFF, plug in game cartridge.

3.  Turn power ON.  If no picture appears, check connection of your game
    system to TV, then repeat steps 1-3.

4.  Plug in left Joystick Controller (it's the only one you'll need).  When
    Playing, hold the Controller with red button at upper left.

5.  Difficulty switches (skill levels on Sears Tele-Games Video Arcade) may be
    set at either level and should not be moved during game play.

6.  Select game level as follows:
    
    a.  Move color/black-and-white switch to call up Galactic Chart (see
        illustration next page).
    b.  Consult first line of Mission/Attack Control Computer (MACC)
        information at bottom of screen.
    c.  Select game level with game select switch.  The initial letter of game
        level will appear on the first line of the MACC information.  Game 
        levels vary based on number, speed and accuracy of enemy starfighters,
        and number and speed of meteors encountered in space.


                               GAME LEVELS

                                  |     Number of    |     Meteor and     |
                                  |  Enemy Fighters  |     Enemy Speed    |
        --------------------------|------------------|--------------------|
          E: Ensign               |         9        |         Nominal    |
          L: Leader               |        17        |   1.5 X Nominal    |
          W: Wing Commander       |        23        |   2.0 X Nominal    |
          S: StarMaster           |        31        |   2.5 X Nominal    |
        ------------------------------------------------------------------|


7.  The Adventure Begins.  Press game reset to start your mission.  Your ship
    will be cruising through an empty sector of the galaxy.  Now, you must seek
    out the enemy and race at warp speed to meet and destroy them.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



----------------------------MISSION OPERATIONS---------------------------------

During the course of your mission, you will make use of four distinct modes of
operation:
                       Galactic Chart Analysis
                       Warp Travel
                       Engaging the Enemy
                       Docking with a Starbase

                          GALACTIC CHART ANALYSIS

                               [screen shot]
               [Your ship, Starbase, Enemy starfighters, MACC]

Display your ship's Galactic Chart by moving the color/black-and-white switch
on your game system.  The chart displays three types of information:

1.  Galactic Radar/Sector Analysis.  Displays the relative locations in the
    galaxy of your ship (indicated by a +); your starbases (shown as <>); and
    enemy starfighters (shown as white "blips" on the radar).  There are 36
    sectors of the galaxy (a 6x6 matrix) shown on the radar.

2.  Mission/Attack Control Computer (MACC) Information.  Displayed below the
    Galactic Chart:

    E or L or W or S:  Game level (see prior page).
    W:  Energey required to warp between sectors of the galaxy.
    S:  Stardat (elapsed time of your mission).
    E:  Energy remaining (your ship starts with 9999 units).
    D:  Damage Control Status (see discussion next page).

3.  Color of Computer Panel Display:

    Green: You are in or flying to an empty sector.
    Red:   You are in or flying to a sector occupied by enemy starfighters.
    Blue:  You are in or flying to a sector occupied by a starbase.



In Galactic Chart/Sector Analysis your object is to locate enemy starfighters--
or your starbases.  After consulting MACC, select a sector of the galaxy to
which to warp, to either engage the enemy or dock with a starbase for refueling
and repairs.

Select a sector of the galaxy by moving Joystick up, down, left or right, which
moves a cross on the Galactic Chart display.  Place the + in the sector of the
galaxy to which you wish to travel.

Press red button on Joystick to begin Warp travel to sector selected.



                              WARP TRAVEL

In this segment of your mission, you will be travelling at warp speed from one
sector of the galaxy to another.  Be alert to meteors which enter your path.
Use your Joystick to steer around them (push or pull stick forward, back, right
or left) or destroy them with your laser cannons (press red button on Joystick
to fire).  Each meteor that hits your ship drains 100-500 units of energey from
your shields, and could result in even greater damage to your ship.

During warp travel, MACC will provide only Energy and Damage Control Status.



                           ENGAGING THE ENEMY

When you enter an enemy sector, your ship's laser gunsight will begin to flash,
indicating the presence of enemy starfighters.  Your object is to destroy all
enemy starfighters in the sector, in the fastest time, using the least amount
of energy and avoiding damage to your ship.

                             [screen shot]
       [Enemy Starfighter, Enemy Fire, Gunsight, Laser Cannon Fire, MACC]

Press the red button on your Joystick to fire your laser cannons.  A red
explosion occurs when an enemy ship is destroyed.  A blue explosion occurs when
you destroy incoming enemy fire.  A yellow explosion results when your ship is
hit by enemy fire.  Each firing of your laser cannons requires 100 units of
energy;  each time you are hit by enemy fire, you lose between 100 and 500 
units of energy, depending on the severity of the damage.

When all the enemy ships in a sector have been destroyed, your control console
will turn from red to green.  You should then refer to your Galactic Chart
(move color/black-and-white switch) to seek out more enemy or locate your
starbases.

While engaging the enemy in battle, MACC will display only Energy and Damage
Control Status.  Monitor Damage Control to determine when damage occurs, as
follows:

Damage Control Status (D: LSWR)

L:  Laser cannons destroyed.  You cannot fire at the enemy or meteors.
S:  Shields destroyed.  You ship is defenseless.  One more hit from enemy fire
    or collision with a meteor during warp travel will destroy your ship and 
    end the game.
W:  Warp engines are damaged.  You ship will use twice as much energy during
    warp travel.  Watch energy reserves.
R:  Radar destroyed.  You can no longer spot enemy fighters on the Galactic
    Chart.  Your starbases will continue to appear.

Whenever damage occurs, you will hear an explosion, whether you are monitoring
your Galactic Chart or viewing the space around you.



Energy Reserves

MACC will activate the energy reserve alarm (a yellow hazard light on the
control panel) when energy drops below 1000 units.  If your ship runs out of
fuel, your mission cannot be continued, and the game is over.

To repair damage and/or refuel, you must reach one of your starbases and dock.



                         Docking with a Starbase

To reach a starbase for docking, call up your Galactic Chart (see Galactic
Chart Analysis), select a sector of the galaxy in which a starbase is located,
and press the red button on your Joystick to warp to the starbase sector.

To dock, use the Joystick to pilot your ship until your ship's sights connect
with the orbitting starbase at its closest approach.

                              [screen shot]
                         [Sight, Starbase, MACC]

Once Docked, your ship's energy will be completely replenished and all damage
will be repaired.  You will then be prepared to continue your mission to
destroy the enemy.



When a Starbase is Destroyed

Enemy starfighters are constantly trying to surround and destroy your
starbases.  Only you can prevent this from occurring.  When the enemy succeeds
in destroying a starbase, an explosion is heard (no matter where your ship
happens to be at the time), and the starbase disappears from the Galactic
Chart.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                              THE MISSION ENDS

When all enemy ships are destroyed or your ship is destroyed or your ship runs
out of energy, your mission is over.

Call up the Galactic Chart with the color/black-and-white switch and review
your Mission Evaluation (score).



-----------------------------MISSION EVALUATION--------------------------------

When your mission is over, the top line of MACC will display an evaluation of
your performance next to the game level indicator.  You must call up the 
Galactic Chart to review your performance.

Your score is determined by how efficiently you complete your mission.  You are
awarded 100 points for each enemy starfighter you destroy.  You are penalized:

         500 points for each starbase destroyed by the enemy.
         100 points for each time you dock for refueling and repairs.
           1 point for each Stardate elapsed.

These bonus or penalty points are added to or deducted from a base score set at
the beginning of each mission, as follows:


                  Game Level          |          Base Score
          ----------------------------|---------------------------
             Ensign                   |            3100
             Leader                   |            4300
             Wing Commander           |            5700
             StarMaster               |            6900

Example:  At Leader level, you destroy all enemy fighters (17) in 83 stardates,
docking once and losing one starbase.  Your Score:

                  Bonus Score                    4300
                  Credit for Enemy Destroyed    +1700
                  Deduct for Stardates          -  83
                  Deduct for Docking            - 100
                  Deduct for Lose of Starbase   - 500
                                               ------
                                   FINAL SCORE   5317


The  maximum score for each game level is as follows:

                  Game Level          |       Maximum Score
          ----------------------------|---------------------------
             Ensign                   |            4000
             Leader                   |            6000
             Wing Commander           |            8000
             StarMaster               |           10000



-----------------------------------ENTER THE-----------------------------------
                       "ORDER OF THE SUPREME STARMASTER"

Any Mission Evaluation score which meets or exceeds the standards set below
qualifies you to be inducted into the "Order of the Supreme StarMaster."

                  Game Level          |       Maximum Score
          ----------------------------|---------------------------
             Ensign                   |            3800
             Leader                   |            5700
             Wing Commander           |            7600
             StarMaster               |            9000

If you qualify, send a photograph of the television screen which displays your
accomplishment.  We will enroll you and send you a special emblem of
achievement.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



---------------------------"THE POWER OF STARMASTER"---------------------------

A special training manual accompanies these instructions.  It contains
invaluable informatiuon, insight and guidance to help you understand the
special features f StarMaster by Activision, and the skills and techniques
which can help you achieve the "Order of Supreme StarMaster."  Read it
thoroughly, and practice its principles.  With proper dedication and training,
you, too, can have "The Power of StarMaster."

[Note:  StarMaster by ACTIVISION is designed to be played on color television
sets only.]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------



Look for more Activision video games wherever you buy video game cartridges.
Drop us a note, and we'll gladly add your name to our mailing list and keep 
you posted on new Activision game cartridges as they become available.

                                 ACTIVISION
        Activision, INc., 3255-2 Scott Blvd., Santa Clara, CA  95051

(c) 1982 Activision. AX-016-03A


-------------------Atari 2600 Instructions Archive-------------------
