Johnson & Johnson presents
 
TOOTH PROTECTORS
 
Video Game Instructions
 
(screen shot)

  The object of Tooth Protectors is to guide T.P. (the Tooth Protector)   
as he protects the teeth during a Snack Attack.  Valuable points are 
accumulated as T.P. deflects the cubes dropped by the Snack Attackers.  
Additionally, if you are successful in protecting the teeth from decay, 
valuable bonus points can also be earned.
  If T.P. misses a number of cubes, the teeth begin to blink, a sign of 
decay.  Additional Tooth Protectors can be called by pressing the red 
Action Button.  The toothbrush, dental floss and fluoride dental rinse 
pass over the teeth, in order, cleaning up the teeth by removing all the 
plaque.
  The game ends if 3 teeth disappear, or if 3 T.P.s are carried away and 
eliminated by the Snack Attackers.
  When you are successful in protecting the teeth, valuable points will 
be accumulated, and there will be no end to the fun you can have!
 
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
TOOTH PROTECTORS
 
1.  Hook up your video game system.  Follow manufacturer's instructions.
 
2.  With power off, plug in Tooth Protectors game cartridge.
 
3.  Turn power ON.  If no picture appears, check connection of your game 
    system to TV, then repeat steps 1-3.
 
4.  Tooth Protectors is a one-player game.  Plug in left joystick 
    controller or track-ball controller.  When playing, hold the red 
    button in the upper left position.  
 
5.  Difficulty switches are not used in Tooth Protectors.  Each game has 
    4 levels of difficulty built-in.
 
6.  The game will begin at level 1.  To set a higher level, hold the game 
    select lever down until the desired level appears on the screen.
 
7.  To start, press game reset.  Action begins immediately.
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Screen shot with the following labels:
 
CLEAN UPS: (upper left number)
 
You have 3 free clean ups.  Bonus clean ups are earned at each 50,000 
point interval.

SNACK ATTACKERS: (red character)

Snack Attackers drop snack foods in the form of cubes upon the teeth to 
cause plaque formation and tooth decay.  Beware the Snack Attacker 
warning sound!  At any time, a Snack Attacker may swoop down and try to 
carry away T.P!
 
DECAYING TOOTH:  (flashing tooth at bottom)
 
Blinking will alert you to a decaying tooth.  A tooth will begin to blink 
after it has been hit with 3 cubes.  If the red Action Button is not 
pressed in time, the tooth will decay and disappear.
 
T.P. - THE TOOTH PROTECTOR: (white character)
 
T.P. utilizes dental floss to protect the teeth from the cubes.  The 
cubes can be skillfully deflected in a number of varied directions.
 
REPLACEMENT T.P.s: (upper right number)
 
The game ends when all 3 T.P.s have been carried away by the Snack 
Attackers.
 
SNACK ATTACKER TIME BAR: (bar at top of screen)
 
This colored bar will alert you to the remaining time in the Snack 
Attack.  To move on to the next level, you must successfully protect the 
teeth during the entire Snack Attack.
 
SCORING: (bottom number)
 
100 game points are earned for each cube T.P. deflects.  1,000 points are 
earned if a deflected cube hits another falling cube.  10,000 BONUS 
POINTS are earned if all teeth remain at the end of a Snack Attack; 5,000 
BONUS POINTS  are earned if only 1 tooth is lost; and 1,000 BONUS POINTS 
are earned if 2 teeth are lost.
 
The Real Tooth Protectors..
 
(advertisements for Johnson & Johnson dental floss, Reach toothbrush and 
Act fluoride dental rinse)  
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 


